Description of All the Design Patterns provided Above :

1. Creation : Factory Method

           - To create an abstract class (a.k.a factory) for creating objects. Because of that, the object instantiation is
              done by its subclasses.
           - Also, you can use an interface as the factory, instead of an abstract class.
           - So, if you use interface as the factory, its subclasses must implement their own factory methods for object
            instantiation.
           - Define an interface or abstract class for creating an object but let the subclasses decide which class to
            instantiate
           - allow subClasses what type of Object To Create
           - promotes the loose-coupling by eliminating the need to bind application-specific classes into the code
           - used when classes do not know what subclasses require to create
           - parent classes choose the creation of objects to its subclasses.
           - Factory Method Pattern usually gives you a different instance of each type.
           - Also known as Virtual Constructor.

           Use Case Example : we are implementing a Food Stall which deliver FastFood such burgers,fries,beverages,desserts . if
           customer wants combos for the above items. the combos are as follows children/LTE combo,family combo , party
           combo.

2. Creation : Singleton Design Pattern

        - Implies a class which can only be instantiated once, and a global point of access to that instance is
         provided.
        - Class with a method that creates a new instance of the class if one does not exist. If an instance has already
          been created, the constructor simply returns a reference to that object.
        - Lazy initialization – which means that it restricts the creation of the instance until it is requested for the
          first time.

        Use Case : A factory with multiple manufacturing tracks. The tracks are the ones that actually do all the work,
        whether it is packing cans or making car parts. However, it is the “factory manager” that decides how many tracks
        will be working, for how long, and what they are going to do

3. Creation: Builder Design Pattern


    - Separate the construction of a complex object from its representation so that the same construction process can
      create different representations.

    - Product – The product class defines the type of the complex object that is to be generated by the builder
      pattern.

    - Builder – This abstract base class defines all the steps that must be taken in order to correctly create a
      product. Each step is generally abstract as the actual functionality of the builder is carried out in the
      concrete
      subclasses. The GetProduct method is used to return the final product. The builder class is often replaced
      with a
      simple interface.

    - ConcreteBuilder – There may be any number of concrete builder classes inheriting from Builder. These classes
      contain the functionality to create a particular complex product.

    - Director – The director-class controls the algorithm that generates the final product object. A director
      object is
      instantiated and its Construct method is called. The method includes a parameter to capture the specific
      concrete
      builder object that is to be used to generate the product. The director then calls methods of the concrete
      builder
      in the correct order to generate the product object. On completion of the process, the GetProduct method of
      the
      builder object can be used to return the product.

    - All implementations of java.lang.Appendable are in fact good examples of the use of Builder pattern in java.
      e.g.

      java.lang.StringBuilder#append() [Unsynchronized class]
      java.lang.StringBuffer#append() [Synchronized class]
      java.nio.ByteBuffer#put() (also on CharBuffer, ShortBuffer, IntBuffer, LongBuffer, FloatBuffer and
      DoubleBuffer)
      Another use can be found in javax.swing.GroupLayout.Group#addComponent().

      source "wikipedia"

      UseCase : Pizza Builder , need to construct a Pizza



4. Creation: Abstract Factory Design Pattern


    - Provides an interface for creating families of related or dependent objects without specifying their concrete
      class.
    - The Abstract Factory pattern provides a way to encapsulate a group of individual factories that have a common
      theme without specifying their concrete classes.
    - Abstract factory pattern implementation provides us with a framework that allows us to create objects that follow a  general pattern.
    - So at runtime, the abstract factory is coupled with any desired concrete factory which can create objects of the desired type.

Difference Between Abstract Factory Pattern vs Factory Design Pattern  
refer : https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1001767/what-is-the-basic-difference-between-the-factory-and-abstract-factory-design-pat
